


ISPELL(1)                                               ISPELL(1)


NNAAMMEE
       ispell - Correct spelling for a file

SSYYNNOOPPSSIISS
       iissppeellll [ file ... ]
       iissppeellll [ --ll | --DD | --EE ]
       ssppeellll [ +local_file ] [ file ...]

DDEESSCCRRIIPPTTIIOONN
       Ispell  is  a program that helps you to correct typos in a
       file, and to find the correct  spelling  of  words.   When
       presented  with  a  word  that  is  not in the dictionary,
       ispell attempts to find near misses that might include the
       word you meant.

       The  best  way to use ispell is with GNU EMACS.  For docu-
       mentation about this mode, see the info topic "ispell".

       Ispell can also be used by itself, and in  this  case  the
       most common usage is "ispell filename".  If ispell finds a
       word that is not in the dictionary, it is printed  at  the
       top  of the screen.  Ispell then checks the dictionary for
       near misses - words that differ only by a single letter, a
       missing  or extra letter, or a pair of transposed letters.
       Any that are found are printed on the following lines, and
       finally,  two  lines  of  context  containing the word are
       printed at the bottom of the screen.  If your terminal can
       type in reverse video, the word itself is highlighted.

       If  you  think  the  word is correct as it stands, you can
       type either "Space" to accept it this  one  time,  "A"  to
       accept  it  for the rest of this file, or "I" to accept it
       and put it in your private dictionary.  If one of the near
       misses  is  the word you want, type the corresponding num-
       ber.  Finally, you can type "R" and you will  be  prompted
       for  a replacement word.  The string you type will be bro-
       ken into words, and each one will also  be  checked.   You
       can also type "?" for help.

       If  ispell  is started with no arguments, it enters a loop
       reading words from the standard input, and  printing  mes-
       sages about them on the standard output.  You can use this
       mode to find the spelling of a problem word.  For example:

       You  can  print  out the system dictionary.  Use -D if you
       want flags, or -E if you want the words expanded.

              % ispell
              word: independant
              how about: independent
              word: ^D

       The --ll or "list" option to ispell is  used  to  produce  a
       list  of  misspelled  words from the standard input.  This



                                                                1





ISPELL(1)                                               ISPELL(1)


       mode is compatible with  the  traditional  spell  program,
       except that the output is not sorted.

       There  are  several  other  options provided so that other
       programs can use ispell.  See  the  documentation  in  the
       ispell source directory for details.

       If  ispell  is executed with the name `spell', it attempts
       to be compatible with the traditional spell program.   You
       can  also  get  this  behavior  with the --uu flag.  In this
       case, the list of files (or standard  input)  is  checked,
       and  an  alphabetized  list of misspellings is produced on
       the standard output.

FFIILLEESS
       /usr/lib/ispell.dict                    System dictionary
       $HOME/ispell.words                      Private dictionary

SSEEEE AALLSSOO
       ispell.texinfo

AAUUTTHHOORR
       Pace Willisson (pace@mit-vax pace@eddie.mit.edu)


































                                                                2


